Program Description:

The program in question is a simple console application written in C#. The functioning of this application is straightforward, it just needs to print the message "Hello World" on the console.

Program Features:

Our "Hello World" console application will only have a single feature - the delivery of the string "Hello World" to the system console. 

Program Structure:

Given the simplicity of a "Hello World" program, we don't require any specific classes other than the default "Program" class automatically generated by the .NET framework for console applications.

However, we will make use of the following methods:

1. Main method - the entry point of our Console application. The Main method will call a WriteLine method from the System.Console class, which will print the message "Hello World" on the console.

Dependencies:

Standard dependencies include the .NET Core Framework which provides the necessary environment to build and run C# applications, and the System namespace, which provides access to fundamental classes and base types that defines commonly-used values and reference data types, events and event handlers, interfaces, attributes, and exception handling.

Specification:

```
public class Program // This class encapsulates the entire console application
{
     public static void Main(string[] args) // This method is the main entry point of the application
     {
          System.Console.WriteLine("Hello World"); // This line of code prints "Hello World" to the console.
     }
}
```

The WriteLine method is a part of the System.Console class and is used to print text on the console. In our case, this text is "Hello World". The "static" keyword indicates that the Main method can be called without an instance of the Program class. The Main method itself is encapsulated within a class called "Program".

There are no non-standard dependencies. In this project, we are only using basic functionalities provided by the .NET Core Framework, which includes the ability to print output to the console.